---
layout: post
title: The Coronavirus and Participating in History
tags: [column, history]
category: "other"
feature-img: "assets/img/coronavirus.jpg"
permalink: "/coronavirus-history/"
---
The coronavirus pandemic isn't the most important thing that's happened in my lifetime, but it certainly feels like it. That's probably due to recency bias and the fact that this pandemic is having such a universal impact. Famous people are getting it, normal people are getting it, [you’re probably going to get it](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2020/02/covid-vaccine/607000/). Businesses are closing, workers are losing wages, grocery stores are short on supplies, and every day the number of new cases, and deaths, goes up. This is more than just seeing something big on the news. This is that big thing on the news coming down to your house, kicking down the door, and punching you in the face.

Honestly, this pandemic makes me realize how insulated I've been from major world events. I’ve never been impoverished by an economic downturn, placed under threat of deportation, or conscripted to fight in a war. History always happened to other people. We're all certainly affected by those events, but for most people that impact is gradual and non-disruptive. Smartphones coming out in 2007 was a historic technological development. It changed the way we work, communicate, and consume media. But I didn’t get a smartphone until years after Steve Jobs's demo of the first iPhone, and the excitement of how new and revolutionary it was died off after a few days. Even something like national elections, which are supposed to be all about how the candidates are going to change our lives, usually don’t shake things up too quickly. You see the results, you think about how things are either going to get much better or much worse, and then you head back to work. There’s a reason why, in 1980, Ronald Reagan [directly asked voters whether they were better off then they were four years ago](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rU6PWT1rVUk). They only noticed the difference when they stopped and reflected on it.

With coronavirus, however, you don’t have to stop and reflect on your life, it’s doing the stopping for you. I’m not just making a death joke here. Your job? Stay at home. Your paycheck? You didn't work any hours. Looking forward to graduation? Can’t have too many people together. Want to see your friends? Social isolation! This isn’t even something where you can shut the TV off and pretend everything’s normal. The minute you run out of toilet paper the harsh reality will set in. The saddest part of all this for me personally is that I’m not even particularly afraid of getting the disease. I’m absurdly healthy for how much fast food I eat, and I have that young male thing where I think I’m invincible. Disease doesn’t scare me, you know what does? Economic collapse and food shortages. My antibodies can’t fight those.

Years ago, I remember watching news footage of thousands of Egyptians flooding the streets of Cairo during the 2011 Revolution, calling for the removal of dictator Hosni Mubarak. It was one of the first times where I realized the magnitude of the events that I was witnessing, and I remember wishing I could join them in Tahrir Square and directly participate in history. Well, now I get to participate in history, by socially isolating myself, stockpiling food, and eventually joining the tally of the infected. [The Monkey’s Paw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NP1V-vVDg_Y) has granted my wish.
